---
title: "home"
bg: white
color: black
style: center
---

## 2nd Seminar on
{: .text-purple}
# **Reinforcement Learning**
{: .text-purple}
## Barcelona
{: .text-purple}

### UPC ETSETB TelecomBCN (Spring 2020)

Reinforcement learning is an area of machine learning concerned by how software
agents ought to take actions in an environment so as to maximize some notion of
cumulative reward. The problem, due to its generality, is studied in many other
disciplines, such as game theory, control theory, operations research, information
theory, simulation-based optimization, multi-agent systems, swarm intelligence,
statistics, and genetic algorithms. In the operations research and control literature, the
field where reinforcement learning methods are studied is called approximate dynamic
programming. In machine learning, the environment is typically formulated as a
Markov decision process (MDP), as many reinforcement learning algorithms for this
context utilize dynamic programming techniques. The main difference between the
classical techniques and reinforcement learning algorithms is that the latter do not need
knowledge about the MDP and they target large MDPs where exact methods become
infeasible.

Reinforcement learning differs from standard supervised learning in that correct
input/output pairs are never presented, nor sub-optimal actions explicitly corrected.
Further, there is a focus on on-line performance, which involves finding a balance
between exploration (of uncharted territory) and exploitation (of current knowledge),
and getting rewards from the environment.

The course explores automated decision making from a computational perspective. It
examines efficient algorithms, where they exist as well as approaches to learning near-
optimal decisions from experience.  Topics include Markov decision processes, model-
free learning and deep reinforcement learning. Of particular interest will be issues of
generalization, exploration, and representation. Students will apply concepts to practical
problems.

